welcome to slash forward in this episode
we're going to take a peek at the
incredibly long film the empty man based
on a graphic novel
comment below about whether you think
this was a faithful adaptation of the
source material
and consider hitting the like button if
at any point you reach an epiphany about
the nothingness
of everything let's get to it
we opened in bhutan in 1995 as a group
of tourists hiked through the misty
mountains
but this is not a pristine wilderness
nor a primitive trail as we come to find
it is littered with decorations and
structures
even a convenient bridge they cross but
almost immediately consider heading back
down the mountain due to an ominous
nor'easter bearing down on them
however paul hears a faint tooting sound
from off in the distance
and it maxes out his curiosity meter he
seems to be the only one it calls to
and he floats off and wonder in its
general direction until he doesn't
always quick to help a bro greg saddles
up and descends into the welcoming folds
of the crevasse but when he gets down
there paul is already super busy praying
to the god of the mountain
or goddess despite his concentration
paul is decent enough to whisper greg
that touching him will result in greg's
death but with no clear danger nearby or
context of what he's on about greg
resolves to get his bud out of there
even despite his passive resistance
greg struggles to dig deep enough to
find the stamina of firemen carry paul
all the way down and right as his
hammies really start squealing they find
a rustic cabin just off the trail
inside they work to get paul's clothes
off to check for unseen injuries and
find an object in his hand
as the storm rolls in they've gotten
everyone all comfy with no
obvious signs of external distress other
than some old wounds
so they settle in for some tea as he
works out his issues and they attempt to
calm ruthie
insisting there's little they can do
other than observe him overnight
that evening while keeping a vigil we
learned that the item he held was
responsible for the sound that summoned
him from a distance
as ruthie gives it a little blow this
snaps her into an alternate reality
where all she can hear are footsteps
outside her room but she explores the
cabin to find no
one the next morning we see the rain has
turned to snow greg and fiona head out
while ruthie occupies her time by doing
the homeowner's laundry and then she
sees a figure out in the snow
hoping it's someone who can help she
runs out to see who it be but soon
realizes that it's obviously not here to
help it plays a little game of matching
her step for step before chasing her
full steam back into the cabin however
the pounding at the door soon comes into
resolution as we hear greg and fiona
asking to be let in and confirming they
didn't see anyone outside with ruthie
that night as they all get some rest
this time we see paul awakened filling
ruthie's subconscious with some sort of
whispered filth
the next morning they discover that paul
is not in bed anymore and his jacket is
missing
they follow the trail of his footprints
and are relieved that he's just back at
the bridge
meditating and tuning on his reed
whistle ascending to another plane of
existence
he makes sure to let greg know that he
told him so real quick before ruthie
pulls out a knife and starts stabbing
and slicing and pushing people into the
abyss
as paul sheds a single tear she pencil
dives right after them ending their
short vacation in bhutan
flash forward to missouri in 2018. we
find a man
jogging although we don't yet know if
he's empty
this is james and he runs a personal
security business and seems to have some
personal demons
on full demonstration as he enjoys a
solitary wet lunch
purchased with a birthday coop which
unwittingly results in a celebratory
treat when he gets back to the old
bachelor pad he finds amanda out back
wanting to check on him since it's the
one year anniversary of some
alluded to tragic event in which family
members died
she's come to offer some comfort nothing
can hurt you because nothing is real
ah i see through her own personal
research and growth she's discovered the
power of manifestation
tapping into a shared consciousness
streaming through all history
james isn't so much of a woo-woo guy and
she's a dumb teenager so she leaves him
to mull it over a bit
quick nightmare of his family asking
where he was and then he pops his
morning dosage to start his day
james then gets a call to amanda's home
where her mother nora
an old friend reports that she's gone
missing but she was kind enough to leave
a parting message
as the police go through their routine
we learned that james used to be an
undercover cop
and as their questions turn toward the
idea that amanda may have left of her
own volition
it becomes clear that they don't intend
to do much to investigate the events
that have transpired here
as an old friend james offers to step in
and act as an investigator and he starts
by acquiring
a list of amanda's school chums in a
very natural and unsuspicious manner he
heads down to the local schoolhouse and
starts asking kids their names and if
they'd like to get into his car
he finds tavara who tells him about the
empty man myth you go to a bridge and
find an empty bottle
blow on that sucker while thinking of
the empty man in a few days later he
appears
since she and amanda happen to have
recently found themselves at a bridge
with their friend group she recounts the
tale
through this amanda provides additional
context to the friend group
which is us teaching that if you
successfully summon him you hear him on
the first night
can't stop thinking of him on the second
and then finally get to meet him on the
third to prove they ain't scared they
all participate in the ritual but amanda
takes it a step further
taking up a relaxed position and really
getting into an empty man mindset
repeating his name over and over and
giving it the attention it truly
deserves it ends when the ambient noise
cuts out and the teens hear some
reciprocal blowing from the other end of
the bridge
followed by pounding footsteps that
caused them to scatter as she concludes
the story we see amanda engaging in some
familiar whispering and observe
indications the whole friend group is
affected
james secures some additional addresses
and begins beating some bushes hoping to
rattle some of these little [ __ ]
cages
but everywhere he goes he finds nothing
but missing persons and sometimes
bloody leavings he heads out to the
bridge to see if he can retrace their
steps from the last time they were all
together
while making observations he foolishly
turns off the sound
save for a faint clanging noise james
follows it below deck where he finally
finds some friends
the source of the clinging and a
familiar message the police are there
into the evening cleaning up the bodies
and collecting what evidence they can
and we see james also more seriously
pondering some evidence he found
but is keeping to himself for now as he
rests up we catch up with davara
preparing to treat herself to a night
steam
she loves the feel of the heat
enveloping her body and relishes in the
toxins streaming from her pores
but she's not alone and the empty man
interrupts her simple pleasure to ravage
her face
as we step back to see it is she who is
doing this violence to her own self this
news makes it back to james during his
interrogation regarding his
investigation
and they all consider the sheer will
required to commit apparent suicide via
multiple stab wounds to the face
the lead detective is concerned now
about the poisonous nature of suffering
this much darkness in such a small town
there have been multiple instances of
unusual violence
all seemingly unrelated other than the
message about the empty man
his plan we can't indict the cosmos
pretend like it never happened and hope
that it goes away on its own james has
his own obligations however and decides
to hit the old keyboard to do some
research he learns the pontifex
institute is considered a death cult
revolving around the concept of thought
form
a colloquial word used for a psychic
manifestation noah then comes over to
make sure james has had something to eat
and offers up some comfort
we learned quickly that they have a raw
animal sensuality between them
which naturally leads to crossing some
self-imposed boundaries and so she heads
back out
james sleeps but doesn't get much rest
and is soon awoken in the early morning
hours to sound is coming from his front
hall as he watches the front window the
lights go out and he observes clear
evidence that there is a presence in the
house
this is further confirmed when he
finally works up the courage to confront
the intruder and finds the front door is
also open
the next day james takes some time out
of his busy schedule to learn about
unleashing the power of the mind
after a simple application process he
follows the wackadoos into the grand
ballroom where arthur parsons gives a
life-changing speech about how like
we live in a society and nothing is real
man
like the sky is only blue because
someone told you it was
there is only the great binding
nothingness and he confirms his words
are directly sponsored by the empty man
arthur gives james a bit of his time
during the meet and greet afterward he
explains the empty man in a bit more
detail but james finds it a bit too
enigmatic to pull apart so he bids him a
deal but takes a detour on the way out
exploring the deep levels of the
building and finding the barracks
downstairs along with the extensive
records room he just keeps going and it
seems to just keep going until he
eventually stumbles upon a master class
of mantra chanters after making a noise
he is we presume asked to reveal himself
but he soon learns that they're not
talking to him as a strange shuffling
noise emanates from below
he attempts to peek over the railing but
his revelation is interrupted by
security who escort him outside
in the dank gutter he meets an insider
who seems to want to share information
with him
what he gets is a warning about the
group's power and the location of their
secret
camp where things tend to get really
strange james drives out and lets
himself into the information center
where he starts sifting through their
records and finds the gangs all here
with quite a bit of personal information
going back pretty far
just for further confirmation of the
crazy he checks out one of the cabins
and finds a vhs tape in which the cabin
occupants recorded themselves performing
some
unusual rituals that resulted in some
strange manifestations
when james emerges he sees a light off
in the distance and goes toward it he
witnesses a group of freaks enjoying a
jog around the bonfire their chanting
and energy really invigorates the flame
and results in james having a brief
vision but he soon snaps out of it to
find the flame gone
and then the light is similarly
extinguished the group moves in unison
in his general direction following him
step for step before taking off in a
full-out sprint as he retreats into the
woods
he manages to make it to his vehicle and
tear out of there into the night
wondering what the [ __ ] was that a good
question
he immediately runs to the station to
drop off the files and is encouraged to
write a statement but also seems to
notice the guys are side-eyeing him
pretty hard so afterward he gears up at
his shop and rushes to nora's house
he recommends she head out for a few
days filling her in on the dangers of
the pontifex institute before
dropping her off at a hotel through
their parting words we get confirmation
that his recurring nightmare is of his
family dying in a car wreck
which happened at the same time he was
stepping out with nora he wakes up at
3am again
and now gets to meet the empty man but
it's over pretty quickly
afterward his doorbell rings and he
finds a gift on his doorstep
then he breaks the cycle declining to
medicate himself and returning his ring
to its finger
newly motivated he hits the streets
following his young friend to see where
the trail leads
they wind all over town picking up
passengers well beyond the load capacity
of their vehicle
luckily they reach their destination and
unload before the springs give out they
enter the back door of a medical
facility and james manages to just
barely keep up and pursue them through
the hospital where they eventually enter
a room and engage in an odd ritual for
what looks like
paul the one who apparently brought the
empty man stateside
after the field trip james does a child
abduction relieved to find that our
modern culture is very conducive to such
activities he insists on being provided
info but gets
more tangled up mumbo jumbo there's a
prophet the between one who needs an
empty man to act as a bridge to our
world from the no sphere he brings chaos
and will pull back the veil to reveal
that nothing is real
which he thinks is pretty cool when
asked directly about amanda's
whereabouts
lest we forget what james has been
motivated by this whole time he just
says that she's on the bridge
which of course doesn't exist james
heads back to the institute now
but it's as if they were expecting him
in the record room he gets right to the
patient's file
somehow and confirms for us that it is
paul he's distracted however by a file
inside the file that's about him and it
contains everything including photos and
items that would seem impossible to
acquire he molds this over on his way
back to the hospital when he arrives on
the floor he plays like he's a pi and is
looking for a missing person
he wants to rule out the patient and
starts questioning the night nurse on
what she knows about him
she starts out tight-lipped but then
seems to really take pleasure in
gossiping about the comatose man
noting how curious it is that someone
who's a john doe and can't speak has so
many strange visitors
why he even has someone in there right
now james goes in to see if he can pump
this person for some more information on
amanda's whereabouts but it turns out to
actually be amanda tending to paul's
every need
she refers to him as a carrier of a
signal that is contagious
james makes a quick call to nora to
share the good news i'm sorry who is
this
but she has no idea who he is so amanda
explains further that paul is withering
from holding so much power for so long
a replacement is needed and rather than
waiting to chance upon another vessel
they decided to make one this time not
just in the sense that they capitalized
on james emptiness but in the sense that
he was actually born
three days ago with a lifetime history
of pain and fearfulness designed whole
cloth by the group and indeed the worst
moment in his entire life
was engineered specifically to help him
be a sufficient vessel
this was all accomplished through the
art of thought form
thought was concentration plus time
equals flesh
he then falls back into his memories and
becomes witness to his conjuring and the
manifestation of the signal which
pursues him in its wedding vestments
hoping to make him its bride and chasing
him down a dark hallway
when it eventually catches up with him
it pins him down and ejaculates its
entire being down the back of his throat
he flees from this reality while
remembering the most painful details of
his life
circling back to his house and breaking
in to find that it contains nothing
except a hallway that leads to a room
where they're keeping paul
he kills paul unsure if he's breaking a
cycle or
starting a new one and finds himself
back in the hospital room he exits the
room where the staff demonstrates their
willingness to worship him
bowing down before him and making
themselves available to receive his
transmission
i have a website set up where you can
support the channel through donations or
merch
just a quick note that i've added an
uncensored review of under the skin as a
benefit for donation i'd like to give a
huge thanks to my donors memorialized in
the hall of head shots
[Music]
the empty man was a film of epic
proportions and i really enjoyed going
along for the ride
i wasn't sure what they were thinking
when i saw the run time after i started
watching
but it makes sense there was a lot to
pack in it's hard for me to analyze
films like this when i'm watching for
the purpose of breaking down and
reassembling the plot
because it becomes very apparent when
things are happening for no particular
reason or don't receive any real payoff
later in the storyline and this is
something we see in this film
quite a bit however the overall
atmosphere and experience of watching
was enjoyable i have to imagine they
were trying their best to include as
much of the source material as possible
while containing the film to a
reasonable run time
since this inevitably results in
trade-offs i'm genuinely interested to
hear what fans of the graphic novel felt
about the movie and if you enjoyed the
video i'd love for you to become a part
of the channel by subscribing
thanks for watching